NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday hosted a one-on-one dinner for 

  Russian president Vladimir Putin 
 + at his official residence here where the two leaders held a discussion on a host of issues, including bilateral cooperation and strategic issues. 



Putin's India visit: New Delhi plays balancing act between US, RussiaAs India and Russia prepare to sign a deal for S-400 missile defence system on Friday, New Delhi is playing the greatest balancing act of all — its defence needs and a strategic relationship with Russia with sanctions and a growing strategic relationship with US. 


Earlier, Modi received Putin at his 7, Lok Kalyan Marg residence.

Putin, who arrived in New Delhi Thursday evening on a two-day official visit was received by external affairs minister Sushma Swaraj.

The PM later hosted one-on-one dinner for Putin, official sources said.



US, China look on as Putin seeks India arms dealsThe Kremlin said before the two-day visit that the "key feature" would be the signing of a $5-billion deal for the advanced S-400 air defence system, despite US sanctions against countries buying Russian defence hardware. Putin and Modi are also set to discuss a possible 2nd Russian-built nuclear power plant in India. 


"Welcome to India, President Putin. Looking forward to our deliberations, which will further enhance India-Russia friendship," the PM tweeted in Russian and English.


Welcome to India, President Putin.  Looking forward to our deliberations, which will further enhance India-Russia… https://t.co/OvZC0xA8PX— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1538664411000
Putin and Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold the 19th India-Russia annual bilateral summit during which the two leaders are expected to review bilateral defence cooperation in the wake of the US sanctions against Russian defence majors.



The focus during the visit will be on the S-400 Triumf air defence missile systems agreement with a top Kremlin aide saying Tuesday that Russian President Putin will oversee the signing of the "$ 5 billion deal".

"The key feature of this visit will be the signing of the agreement to deliver S-400 air defence systems," Putin's top foreign policy aide Yury Ushakov was quoted in media reports as saying in Moscow. "The value of the contract will be more than $ 5 billion," he said.

The purchase will violate sanctions under the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA) instituted by the US Congress on arms purchases from Russia, but American lawmakers have allowed the possibility of a presidential waiver.

There have been indications by New Delhi that it will go ahead with the deal notwithstanding the US sanctions.

Modi has hosted private dinners for world leaders in the past too, including Israeli PM Benjamin Netanyahu. 

